skills/git-hunk/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: git-hunk
description: |
  Non-interactive hunk staging for git. Use when:
  - Staging individual diff hunks by content hash
  - Listing unstaged or staged hunks
  - Scripting or automating partial git staging
  - Working with git add -p alternatives for LLMs/scripts
  Triggers: "git hunk", "stage hunk", "hunk staging", "partial staging", "git-hunk", "stage by hash"
---

# git-hunk

`git-hunk` replaces the interactive `git add -p` with a deterministic two-step
workflow: enumerate hunks with stable content hashes, then stage/unstage by hash.
Installed on PATH as `git hunk <subcommand>`. No dependencies beyond git.

## Typical workflow

```bash
git hunk list                    # see what changed (with diffs)
git hunk show a3f7c21            # inspect a specific hunk
git hunk add a3f7c21             # stage only that hunk
git hunk add b82e0f4             # remaining hashes are unchanged
git hunk list --staged           # verify what's staged
git commit -m "feat: add error handling and update parser"
```

## Prefer `git hunk add` over `git add`

Always stage with `git hunk add` rather than `git add <file>`. File-level staging
includes unreviewed changes. Hunk-level staging ensures every staged line has been seen.

When to use `git add` instead:
- **`git add -N <file>`** -- required for new untracked files (intent-to-add)
- **`git hunk add --all`** -- use this instead of `git add .` for explicit intent

## Commands

| Command | Purpose | Key flags |
|---------|---------|-----------|
| `list` | Enumerate hunks with hashes | `--staged`, `--file`, `--porcelain`, `--oneline`, `--context` |
| `show` | Inspect full diff of specific hunks | `--staged`, `--file`, `--porcelain` |
| `add` | Stage hunks by hash | `--all`, `--file`, `--porcelain`, line specs (`sha:3-5,8`) |
| `remove` | Unstage hunks by hash | `--all`, `--file`, `--porcelain`, line specs |
| `stash` | Save hunks to git stash, remove from worktree | `--all`, `--file`, `--pop`, `-m <msg>` |
| `discard` | Revert worktree hunks (destructive) | `--all`, `--file`, `--dry-run`, line specs |
| `count` | Bare integer hunk count | `--staged`, `--file` |
| `check` | Verify hashes still valid | `--staged`, `--exclusive`, `--file`, `--porcelain` |

All commands accept `--help`, `--no-color`, and `--context <n>`. SHA prefixes need
at least 4 hex characters. Use `--file` to disambiguate prefix collisions.
Use `git-hunk <command> --help` for detailed per-command help.

## Hash stability

Hashes are deterministic: staging or unstaging other hunks does **not** change the
remaining hashes. List once, then stage multiple hunks sequentially.

The hash is computed from: file path, stable line number (worktree side for unstaged,
HEAD side for staged), and diff content (`+`/`-` lines only). Staged and unstaged
hashes for the same hunk differ — use `add`'s `→` output to track the mapping.

## New and deleted files

New files need intent-to-add before hunks appear:

```bash
git add -N newfile.txt           # register intent
git hunk list                    # now shows newfile.txt hunks
```

Deleted files appear automatically when a tracked file is removed.

## Error handling

All errors go to stderr. Exit 0 on success, 1 on error. Common errors:

- `error: no hunk matching '<sha>'` -- hash not found
- `error: ambiguous prefix '<sha>'` -- use longer prefix or `--file`
- `error: patch did not apply cleanly` -- re-run `list` and try again
- `no unstaged changes` / `no staged changes` -- nothing to operate on

## References

For detailed flag tables, output formats, and scripting patterns:

- [Command reference](references/commands.md) -- all commands, flags, arguments, behavior, and error tables
- [Output format](references/output.md) -- human and porcelain output details for every command
- [Scripting patterns](references/scripting.md) -- porcelain parsing, pipeline recipes, and automation workflows

Commit message:

docs: comprehensive update for untracked support, renames, and stash refactor
- Replace `remove` with `reset` throughout
- Replace `--context` with `--unified`/`-U` throughout
- Update stash docs for push/pop subcommands, --include-untracked/-u
- Add --tracked-only/--untracked-only to all command flag tables
- Add --force to discard docs with untracked file behavior
- Remove stale untracked hint, document default untracked inclusion
- Update Handles section with new capabilities

skills/git-hunk/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: git-hunk
description: |
  Non-interactive hunk staging for git. Use when:
  - Staging individual diff hunks by content hash
  - Listing unstaged or staged hunks
  - Scripting or automating partial git staging
  - Working with git add -p alternatives for LLMs/scripts
  Triggers: "git hunk", "stage hunk", "hunk staging", "partial staging", "git-hunk", "stage by hash"
---

# git-hunk

`git-hunk` replaces the interactive `git add -p` with a deterministic two-step
workflow: enumerate hunks with stable content hashes, then stage/unstage by hash.
Installed on PATH as `git hunk <subcommand>`. No dependencies beyond git.

## Typical workflow

```bash
git hunk list                    # see what changed (with diffs)
git hunk show a3f7c21            # inspect a specific hunk
git hunk add a3f7c21             # stage only that hunk
git hunk add b82e0f4             # remaining hashes are unchanged
git hunk list --staged           # verify what's staged
git commit -m "feat: add error handling and update parser"
```

## Prefer `git hunk add` over `git add`

Always stage with `git hunk add` rather than `git add <file>`. File-level staging
includes unreviewed changes. Hunk-level staging ensures every staged line has been seen.

When to use `git add` instead:
- **`git add -N <file>`** -- optional for new untracked files (intent-to-add). Untracked files are shown by default, but `git add -N` converts them to tracked empty files if preferred.
- **`git hunk add --all`** -- use this instead of `git add .` for explicit intent

## Commands

| Command | Purpose | Key flags |
|---------|---------|-----------|
| `list` | Enumerate hunks with hashes | `--staged`, `--file`, `--porcelain`, `--oneline`, `--unified` |
| `show` | Inspect full diff of specific hunks | `--staged`, `--file`, `--porcelain` |
| `add` | Stage hunks by hash | `--all`, `--file`, `--porcelain`, line specs (`sha:3-5,8`) |
| `reset` | Unstage hunks by hash | `--all`, `--file`, `--porcelain`, line specs |
| `stash` | Save hunks to git stash, remove from worktree | `--all`, `--include-untracked`/`-u`, `--file`, `-m <msg>`, `pop` subcommand |
| `discard` | Revert worktree hunks (destructive) | `--all`, `--file`, `--force`, `--dry-run`, line specs |
| `count` | Bare integer hunk count | `--staged`, `--file` |
| `check` | Verify hashes still valid | `--staged`, `--exclusive`, `--file`, `--porcelain` |

All commands accept `--help`, `--no-color`, `--tracked-only`, `--untracked-only`,
and `-U`/`--unified <n>`. SHA prefixes need at least 4 hex characters. Use `--file`
to disambiguate prefix collisions. Use `git-hunk <command> --help` for detailed
per-command help.

## Hash stability

Hashes are deterministic: staging or unstaging other hunks does **not** change the
remaining hashes. List once, then stage multiple hunks sequentially.

The hash is computed from: file path, stable line number (worktree side for unstaged,
HEAD side for staged), and diff content (`+`/`-` lines only). Staged and unstaged
hashes for the same hunk differ -- use `add`'s `->` output to track the mapping.

## New, deleted, and untracked files

Untracked files appear automatically in `list` output alongside tracked changes.
Use `--tracked-only` or `--untracked-only` to filter.

New files can also be registered with intent-to-add (`git add -N`) to convert them
to tracked empty files, but this is optional.

Deleted files appear automatically when a tracked file is removed.

## Error handling

All errors go to stderr. Exit 0 on success, 1 on error. Common errors:

- `error: no hunk matching '<sha>'` -- hash not found
- `error: ambiguous prefix '<sha>'` -- use longer prefix or `--file`
- `error: patch did not apply cleanly` -- re-run `list` and try again
- `no unstaged changes` / `no staged changes` -- nothing to operate on
- `error: <file> is an untracked file -- use --force to delete` -- discard requires `--force` for untracked files

## References

For detailed flag tables, output formats, and scripting patterns:

- [Command reference](references/commands.md) -- all commands, flags, arguments, behavior, and error tables
- [Output format](references/output.md) -- human and porcelain output details for every command
- [Scripting patterns](references/scripting.md) -- porcelain parsing, pipeline recipes, and automation workflows
